well I hope you enjoyed your little walk
around the town why while you've been
out playing I've been really very busy
here and I'm now able to tell you what
we're going to cook but one of the
secrets of French cooking is that menus
are planned after the shopping you don't
plan a menu and then go shopping because
you might not find the ingredients you
want and you're forced to make a
compromise which results in a bad dish
so if you're drifting past like I was
this morning and you saw good mussels or
good good langoustines you buy them then
you plan a menu so today's menu the one
we've plan is to use these langoustine
and I'm going to cook them in a piquant
tomato sauce the tomato sauce was going
to go with them is a fairly complicated
thing you need to use a liquidizer
and you need to use sugar and chopped
shallots and stuff like that it's a
detailed recipe that you can get from
any cookie before particularly mine
flowing on fish when it comes out fairly
soon and I've gz's a bit because I got
jacques-yves chef to already make my
tomato sauce for me Clyde this is quite
important if you can come in close to
see that's a very smooth freshly made
tomato sauce just make that use a
cookery book use a recipe book have some
of that ready okay
our other ingredients cly this is a bit
tricky but wander around a bit are going
to be some finely chopped shallots and
some finely chopped parsley okay
Jackie's been very busy doing me some
garlic which he's taken the little
coarse bit out of the middle and we
shall chop that up not too fine I really
just to crush it to get the flavor from
it okay we need equally some olive oil
doesn't matter but what mark but it must
be olive oil incidentally corn oil will
spoil this dish and a little bit of hot
pepper sauce or something to really G up
the flavor of it okay you've got all the
ingredients I've had a lovely morning so
far shopping I'm definitely going with
some cooking so if you can you know if
you need to take a break live for a
second or whatever I'm going to the
stove follow from you can and I'll start
cooking this one
wonderful dish which is first of all
into a large saute pan a good dollop of
olive oil then we're going to chuck in
our little slots note as usual and as
always I have the pan pot already always
start with a hot pan otherwise things
will boil and not fry and we want these
to fry
then in go the langoustine sorry to cut
across you little mixer salt and pepper
there's a point of honour at stake here
because I have got a cook supper for
these rather brilliant chef and I want
this to be the best language scene I've
ever made and I know I will ensure the
lid then let's see a bit extravagant
if I can find it
Romeo cognac that really gives it bean
junus a quest Paul says is so essential
to make these two television let that
reduce a little okay and then take care
not to burn yourself in the tomato sauce
I'm sure beautiful pink sauce bubbling
away there that just taste it always
tasting coming on extremely well so far
bit of parsley in and look how the color
is I know we always mention color on
ploy lawn fish but the color is the
essence of it is it looks good it's
probably going to taste good now just a
few dashes of Tabasco I'm using Tabasco
you could use any kind of pecan satori
that you you fancy and you stir those
run very important thing the langoustine
because this we are cooking for
gastronomes today not Gastronauts you're
the Gastronauts you know the mythical
unidentified frying object people these
are the real ones so I'm under cooking
these language team they're going to be
slightly undercooked and delicious okay
we'll pull off the stove now and eat
them in a minute real French Elle
extraordinary isn't it and by god I need
it you know jacques-yves ping over my
shoulders made me really nervous so I've
sent him off to lay at the table
actually but I've got to press on I've
got 15 minutes left to get this mussel
dish on the road but he's gonna judge
presumably as equally as harshly as he
knew hit me langoustine if I be let's
recap on what we were doing I was in the
market this one I couldn't resist this
beautiful fresh spinach stay where you
are I will bring it over to you and look
how tender and young is compared to the
stuff we get in England no big thick
stalks no brown edges couldn't resist it
I know it makes a super Gratton dish
mussels widely available couldn't help
buying those and you saw me earlier I
just cooked them off took them out of
their shells I got Jackie to do that
about anything he's done today except
make me nervous so they're already just
lightly steamed and taken out of their
shells then the treat the really good
treat about being here in France was
these little clamp
which cost no money so I bought a couple
of dozen of those and I steamed those on
the that's right say breaking up over
there can I have an assistant producer
do something sensible take that off it's
going to break and I couldn't resist
buying these clams steamed em open on an
open trailer hot some hot oven so I've
got those tongue very pleased about and
then also earlier on this morning you
saw me make my bechamel well everybody
knows how to make a white sauce that's
what it is butter and flour and milk
except I'm going to make it even richer
in a moment by adding some egg yolk and
some double cream I cooked my spinach in
the normal way
which I'll bring over to your driver
it's a bit hot and difficult in here
isn't it and that's been cooked right
then with no liquid at all so now if
you'll come with me and I'll whack this
in the oven and give it the gun because
I want to get back to being Floyd on
fish and not frightened to these
Frenchmen so come with me come in kinda
be having a lot of time hold on that
we've got the producer working this is
absolutely amazing
I hope hasn't burned your fingers
darling has it burnt your fingers he's
he's actually in pain all you're very
hot dish 5 can you come in close close
in there don't worry about me at all
just watch the processes here the clams
the mussels the spinach a little bit of
the bechamel okay then that's on a
fairly hot heat we stir that in it looks
a bit strange at the moment green and
going cream now stay where you are
because double cream into that to make
it really extravagantly rich then the
coup de Grasse as we could say is some
egg yolk stirred in now if I can have my
producer back with a dish stay with it
drive
don't leave us now we've only got 10
minutes before the real chef comes in
and the pudding is going to hit the fan
as they say I think that's how they say
pudding is going to hit the fan tip this
into a nice oven proof dish doesn't that
look delicious actually stir it around
so the clams and the mussels and the
sauce are all equally distributed
haven't got it two equally distributed
there so I just stir it around a little
bit and then I've got some what we call
from I wrap a grated Gruyere this is but
you could use cheddar as long as it was
very fine but try to stay with the
authentic flavors okay that is the dish
and now it has gone to the oven for
about five or ten minutes a very hot
oven mark.you or under the grill for
four or five minutes Brown slightly I'll
do that straight away because time is
pressing on Jacky was going back in a
moment he's laid the table his assistant
chef is coming his wife's going to be
there this is the first time honestly
that I have cooked in France for French
chefs in the way I'm doing it now is it
going to be a winner or a loser we'll
see in a moment